so you asked about how did I treat Tonya
and it's hard to show a lot on video but
one thing that's valuable in the
treatment of anything in the upper body
is to find points in the neck that need
to relax without even a strong focus on
where they are although there are
certainly spots where I look right so
this interestingly enough is called na
so in Japan which is the word for
Braille so it indicates how much it
depends on the sense of touch and it's
easily demonstrated initially what I
want to do is simply induce some
relaxation at the surface so I simply
touched the end of the needle to the
surface of the skin and that changes the
circulatory pattern and then once I've
done that I will look for in durations
will look first along the collarbone
near the attachment of the
sternocleidomastoid muscle mm-hmm and
this needle is blunt this is a blunt
silver needle it doesn't even go into
the skin so I lay it in there and I
advance it so that I can feel the hard
spot feel some resistance mm-hmm I may
insert with this technique but we're not
inserting for demonstration purposes but
even so if I press against the skin at
that hard spot silver is very conductive
one can begin to feel a change one can
feel a stickiness at the end of the
needle and this indicates that the
circulation is changing at the point
it's easier to do with a little
insertion in
with this pressing needle technique but
even with the pressing technique we can
there there it changes okay unless you
don't even look at all because you're
relying on your sense of touch oh yeah
sight is unimportant mm-hmm at this
point so we'll look along the margin of
the sternocleidomastoid muscle a little
further up just looking for a good spot
to release some tension so release
tension doesn't speak adequately to what
we're doing we're really changing
circulation mm-hmm in a pattern that
will continue well after the appointment
right yes for hours and days and yes
this is a supplementary technique in the
whole scheme of things this is
symptomatic treatment mm-hmm before this
I do treatment to simple supplement to
build the body deeply the deep level
what do I mean it's I treat meridians
mm-hmm in Tanya's case I'd treat
primarily the kidney Meridian
secondarily the lung meridian mm-hmm
there we go see there's a change at the
tip of the needle things soften mm-hmm
because I'm not inserting you can't see
any redness good now let's relax what
whirring what portion of the treatment
do you do this oh I don't know Bob is
there a no set they could vary depending
on yeah well I there's some focus on
this
with a situation like Tania's mm-hmm
but still maybe 10% maximum of the
overall treatment time yes
Antonia what what kind of sensation -
yeah no pain at all actually - better
your legs it's it's a Tom touch I don't
know what he does every time you treat
my my ready to fall asleep very relaxing
very good it's a good way to conclude
this portion
unless tom is there anything else you
would add I've just we can also extend
this to just changing the circulation on
the upper back it's called scatter
needling I'm simply touching the skin
with this blunt silver needle it does
quite a lot to change the circulatory
pattern it's very effective
Latanya naturally I'll treat points up
around the occiput and along the the
cervical spine on the neck she has a
little a little cold right now so
stimulating the circulation in this part
of the body is very useful for the cold
touch touch and go a touch and go no
penetration of the skin just touch and
go okay excellent well thank you for
that demonstration welcome and I think
taina thinks you